# 10 Step Method for Memorizing Ritual (Non-tech method)

I.	Get a brief overview of the piece you are learning, divided it up into sections, and count how many words are in each section. Then read it from beginning to end. While reading visualizing what you are reading.

II.	Go to the first section and read it again, this time reading it to understand exactly what is being said, and familiarizing myself with the wording. Highlight parts which seem tricky.

III.	Now each of your sections should be around 50 words (+|-). Break each section into mini-chunks of 5-10 words sentences. Your choice should be based on two things: 1) if the passage is long or difficult make shorter chunks, especially if its words you keep forgetting. 2) If sentences are simple, and easier to remember chunks should be longer.

IV.	For each chunk you read/hear it, say it in your head a few times, and then say it out loud. As you recite it, count each word on your finger. Your goal is to get 100% accuracy, three times. Then say it three times with delivery.

V.	Go to the next chunk and do the same thing as before, only this time test yourself on recalling the first and second chunk together, and then reciting it using delivery. This is called chaining.

VI.	Follow a specific reciting pattern. For example, let’s say you have 50 words in a section divided into 10 chunks, you would repeat it like this : (Ch = chunk) CH1, CH2, CH1+CH2, CH3, CH1+CH2+CH3, CH4, CH1+CH2+CH3+CH4 etc ...

VII.	Connect sections using a similar pattern, until you have the whole piece, memorize, and can say it three times accurately. Focus on the sections/chunks you have issues with and re-memorize it. Any words that you commonly forget, (pivot words), pay extra attention to and use a physical action to remind me of it.

VIII.	Lastly setup a plan, where you test your accuracy saying the different sections 3 times in larger and larger intervals (1 hour, 5 hours, the next day, at night, three days later, and 6 days later).

IX.	Practice your delivery regularly, making sure you sound clear, confident, and impactful. I challenge myself, and play games.

X.	Finally mentally practice your part as if it was really happening. Also work with other brothers to simulate game day conditions.

Tech Script for memorizing ritual.
1) Enter Speech into chunks of 3-20 words.
2) Displays chunk one at a time, for you to say it in your head.
3)  then test it by writing it out, or counting it on something.
4) Then recite it using delivery.
5) Next chunk is displayed, you will do the same as before, but when you're finished then you will be tested on both chunks.
6) Whenever you successful recal a series of chunks in order, they will be displayed as chained.
7) You will be randonmly tested on chains and chunks.
